# 📈 TypeGraphQL x Prisma Demo

This app was first presented at the 30/06/20 talk I gave at the Tech Stage at DEPT. It was a live-coding exercise designed to demonstrate just how much could be done in Node.js with some scaffolding and some command-line tools in **under 10 minutes**; in this case, we built an entire typesafe GraphQL API with [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) and [TypeGraphQL](https://typegraphql.com/)!

## Steps to recreate

In a new Node.js project with a `package.json`, first, run:

```bash
npm install --save-dev prisma
```

This installs Prima's CLI tooling. Once installed you can then run:

```bash
npx prisma init
```

This will scaffold a new Prisma project, complete with a schema file.

Included in this repo is a `docker-compose.yml` file that creates a new Postgres instance. After bringing the database up with `docker compose up`, you can then access it with Prisma by using the following `DATABASE_URL` string into your `.env` file.

```bash
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://postgres:my-secret-pw@localhost:5432/dept-prisma-tgql?schema=public"
```

The next step is to install the Prisma Client package. This is where the JavaScript that is generated by the Prisma CLI lives.

```bash
npm install --save @prisma/client
```

Once this is done, you can open the schema file located at `prisma/schema.prisma` and start making changes!

We'll create a simple schema based on a beer brewery. A brewery _has many_ types of beer. We'll also add some basic detail properties to each model.

```
model Beer {
  id   Int    @id @default(autoincrement())
  name String
  abv  Float

  Brewery   Brewery @relation(fields: [breweryId], references: [id])
  breweryId Int
}

model Brewery {
  id       Int    @id @default(autoincrement())
  name     String
  location String
  beers    Beer[]
}
```

You're ready to run a migration! You can do that by running this command:

```bash
npx prisma migrate dev --name init
```

Next up, let's generate the GraphQL schema! We generate this using Prisma, which outputs the schema to TypeScript. Let's install the dependencies first:

```bash
npm install --save type-graphql graphql graphql-fields reflect-metadata class-validator
npm install --save-dev @types/graphql-fields typegraphql-prisma
```

Then, underneath the existing `generator` block in `prisma/schema.prisma`, add the TypeGraphQL generator:

```
generator typegraphql {
  provider = "typegraphql-prisma"
  output   = "../src/generated/typegraphql-prisma"
}
```

Then, regenerate the Prisma Client and watch all the code be generated into `../src/generated/typegraphql-prisma`!

```bash
npx prisma generate
```

Next, let's add a GraphQL server...

```bash
npm install --save apollo-server
```

In `src/index.ts`, you'll see the code needed to consume the generated schema.

You can then start the server using `npm run dev`. At `localhost:4000` (by default), you will now see the [GraphQL Playground](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-playground). Now we can add some data:

_Query:_

```graphql
mutation ($data: BreweryCreateInput!) {
  createBrewery(data: $data) {
    name
    location
    beers {
      name
      abv
    }
  }
}
```

_Variables:_

```json
{
  "data": {
    "name": "Brouwerij 't IJ",
    "location": "Amsterdam, The Netherlands"
  }
}
```

_Query:_

```graphql
mutation ($data: BeerCreateInput!) {
  createBeer(data: $data) {
    name
    abv
    breweryId
  }
}
```

_Variables:_

```json
{
  "data": {
    "name": "IJwit",
    "abv": 7,
    "Brewery": {
      "connect": {
        "id": 1
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Finally, let's run a query to see this data we've just added coming from the database:

_Query:_

```graphql
query {
  breweries {
    name
    location
    beers {
      abv
      name
    }
  }
}
```

Success!

## Quick Start

- Initialise the project by cloning it into a new directory
- Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in the required variables
- Run `npm install` to install the dependencies
- Run `npm dev` to start the `tsc` compiler and `nodemon` in watch mode

## Development

This project requires **at least Node.js v14**. Always use the [latest LTS version](https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/) of Node.js when you can!

Version management configuration for Node.js is provided for [`volta`](https://volta.sh/). We recommend you have this installed to automatically switch between Node.js versions when you enter one of our project directories. This allows for more deterministic and reproducible builds, which makes debugging easier.

You use `volta` to configure the project to use the latest LTS version of Node.js by running:

```bash
volta pin node@lts
```

You can run this command again to update the version.

### Installation

To install the dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

You can then run the following to start the project in _dev mode_.

```bash
npm run dev
```

This runs the `build:watch` and `start:debug` commands at the same time.

#### Debugging the server

You can run the following to only start the server in _debug_ mode. This will also watch your files for changes, and reload the server when your files are saved.

```bash
npm run start:debug
```

#### TypeScript Compilation

You can also run the following to only start the compiler in _watch_ mode.

```bash
npm run build:watch
```

You can also build the library without watching the directory:

```bash
npm run build
```

## Further reading

- [Prisma Getting Started Guide](https://www.prisma.io/docs/getting-started/setup-prisma/start-from-scratch-typescript-postgres)
- [Unit Testing with Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/docs/guides/testing/unit-testing#dependency-injection)
